go/mysql/vitess/README.md, before:

<!--
Copyright 2025 Columnar Technologies Inc.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# Connecting Go and Vitess with ADBC

## Instructions

> [!TIP]
> If you already have a Vitess instance running, skip the steps to set up and clean up Vitess.

### Prerequisites

1. [Install Go](https://go.dev/doc/install)

2. [Install dbc](https://docs.columnar.tech/dbc/getting_started/installation/)

### Set up Vitess

1. [Install Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/get-docker/)

2. Start a Vitess instance:

    ```sh
    docker run -d --rm --name=vttestserver \
        -p 33574:33574 \
        -p 33575:33575 \
        -p 33577:33577 \
        -e PORT=33574 \
        -e KEYSPACES=test,unsharded \
        -e NUM_SHARDS=2,1 \
        -e MYSQL_MAX_CONNECTIONS=70000 \
        -e MYSQL_BIND_HOST=0.0.0.0 \
        -e VTCOMBO_BIND_HOST=0.0.0.0 \
        vitess/vttestserver:mysql80
    ```

### Connect to Vitess

1. Install the MySQL ADBC driver:

    ```sh
    dbc install mysql
    ```

2. Customize the Go program `main.go` as needed
    - Change the connection arguments in the `NewDatabase()` call
        - Format `uri` according to the [DSN (Data Source Name) format used by Go-MySQL-Driver](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/go-sql-driver/mysql#section-readme), or keep it as is
    - If you changed which database you're connecting to, also change the SQL SELECT statement in `stmt.SetSqlQuery()`

3. Run the Go program:

    ```sh
    go mod tidy
    go run main.go
    ```

### Clean up

Stop the Docker container running Vitess:

```sh
docker stop vttestserver
```

Commit message:

Update READMEs to suggest waiting for container

go/mysql/vitess/README.md, after:

<!--
Copyright 2025 Columnar Technologies Inc.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# Connecting Go and Vitess with ADBC

## Instructions

> [!TIP]
> If you already have a Vitess instance running, skip the steps to set up and clean up Vitess.

### Prerequisites

1. [Install Go](https://go.dev/doc/install)

2. [Install dbc](https://docs.columnar.tech/dbc/getting_started/installation/)

### Set up Vitess

1. [Install Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/get-docker/)

2. Start a Vitess instance:

    ```sh
    docker run -d --rm --name=vttestserver \
        -p 33574:33574 \
        -p 33575:33575 \
        -p 33577:33577 \
        -e PORT=33574 \
        -e KEYSPACES=test,unsharded \
        -e NUM_SHARDS=2,1 \
        -e MYSQL_MAX_CONNECTIONS=70000 \
        -e MYSQL_BIND_HOST=0.0.0.0 \
        -e VTCOMBO_BIND_HOST=0.0.0.0 \
        vitess/vttestserver:mysql80
    ```

    Wait a few moments before continuing to the next step to allow the Vitess container to fully initialize.

### Connect to Vitess

1. Install the MySQL ADBC driver:

    ```sh
    dbc install mysql
    ```

2. Customize the Go program `main.go` as needed
    - Change the connection arguments in the `NewDatabase()` call
        - Format `uri` according to the [DSN (Data Source Name) format used by Go-MySQL-Driver](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/go-sql-driver/mysql#section-readme), or keep it as is
    - If you changed which database you're connecting to, also change the SQL SELECT statement in `stmt.SetSqlQuery()`

3. Run the Go program:

    ```sh
    go mod tidy
    go run main.go
    ```

### Clean up

Stop the Docker container running Vitess:

```sh
docker stop vttestserver
```
