r/postgresql/neon/README.md, before:

<!--
Copyright 2025 Columnar Technologies Inc.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# Connecting R and Neon with ADBC

## Instructions

> [!TIP]
> If you already have a Neon instance running, skip the steps to set up and clean up Neon.

### Prerequisites

1. [Install R](https://www.r-project.org/)

2. [Install dbc](https://docs.columnar.tech/dbc/getting_started/installation/)

3. Install R packages `adbcdrivermanager`, `arrow`, and `tibble`:

    ```r
    install.packages(c("adbcdrivermanager", "arrow", "tibble"))
    ```

### Set up Neon

1. [Install Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/get-docker/)

2. [Install git](https://git-scm.com/install/)

3. Clone the [Neon repository](https://github.com/neondatabase/neon) and change directories:

    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/neondatabase/neon.git
    cd neon/docker-compose
    ```

4. Start a Neon instance:

    ```sh
    docker compose -p neon up -d
    ```

### Connect to Neon

1. Install the PostgreSQL ADBC driver:

    ```sh
    dbc install postgresql
    ```

1. Customize the R script `main.R` as needed
    - Change the connection arguments in `adbc_database_init()`
        - Format `uri` according to the [connection URI format used by PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-CONNSTRING-URIS), or keep it as is
    - If you changed which database you're connecting to, also change the SQL SELECT statement in `read_adbc()`

2. Run the R script:

    ```sh
    Rscript main.R
    ```

### Clean up

Stop the Docker project running Neon:

```sh
docker compose -p neon down
```

Commit message:

Add Neon cloud connection string instructions

r/postgresql/neon/README.md, after:

<!--
Copyright 2025 Columnar Technologies Inc.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# Connecting R and Neon with ADBC

## Instructions

> [!TIP]
> If you already have a Neon instance running, skip the steps to set up and clean up Neon.

### Prerequisites

1. [Install R](https://www.r-project.org/)

2. [Install dbc](https://docs.columnar.tech/dbc/getting_started/installation/)

3. Install R packages `adbcdrivermanager`, `arrow`, and `tibble`:

    ```r
    install.packages(c("adbcdrivermanager", "arrow", "tibble"))
    ```

### Set up Neon

1. [Install Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/get-docker/)

2. [Install git](https://git-scm.com/install/)

3. Clone the [Neon repository](https://github.com/neondatabase/neon) and change directories:

    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/neondatabase/neon.git
    cd neon/docker-compose
    ```

4. Start a Neon instance:

    ```sh
    docker compose -p neon up -d
    ```

### Connect to Neon

1. Install the PostgreSQL ADBC driver:

    ```sh
    dbc install postgresql
    ```

1. Customize the R script `main.R` as needed
    - Change the connection arguments in `adbc_database_init()`
        - Format `uri` according to the [connection URI format used by PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-CONNSTRING-URIS), or keep it as is. For cloud-hosted Neon, the connection string can be found at Project dashboard > Connect > Connection string
    - If you changed which database you're connecting to, also change the SQL SELECT statement in `read_adbc()`

2. Run the R script:

    ```sh
    Rscript main.R
    ```

### Clean up

Stop the Docker project running Neon:

```sh
docker compose -p neon down
```
